_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: <p>Biostatistician, Statistical Geneticist, Associate Director, Adjunct Professor</p>

profile:
  align: right
  image: me2023.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
 
news: false # includes a list of news items
latest_posts: false # includes a list of the newest posts
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Welcome to website. I am Sahir, a biostatistician who tries to use his training in statistics to answer questions that clinicians care about. My tenure as an Assistant Professor at McGill University, within the Departments of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, and Diagnostic Radiology was particularly fruitful. During this period, I developed new statistical methods for analyzing high-dimensional data and supervised 3 Masters, 5 PhD, and 4 undergraduate students, a remarkable achievement in a short span of time.

A significant aspect of my contribution at McGill was the development of various R packages. These packages, which I authored while serving as an Assistant Professor, have been downloaded over 250,000 times, demonstrating their widespread impact and utility in the field of biostatistics and beyond. My research during this period has been featured in high-impact journals such as Nature Genetics, PLoS Medicine, Biometrics, Bioinformatics, Statistics and Computing, PLoS Genetics, Computational Statistics and Data Analysis, the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series C, and the Journal of Statistics and Data Science Education. My ability to secure funding from renowned agencies like NSERC and CIHR further exemplifies my commitment to impactful and innovative research.

Despite these academic accomplishments, I transitioned to industry, driven by a desire to apply my expertise in environments that prioritize reproducibility and robust coding practices. At Deep Genomics, as a Senior Research Scientist, I continued my journey in genomic analysis, contributing significantly to the identification of new drug targets using whole genome sequencing data. 

Currently, as the Associate Director at 5 Prime Sciences, I am instrumental in providing large pharmaceutical partners with human genetics evidence to de-risk their drug development pipelines. This role allows me to apply my statistical genetics skills to directly impact the advancement of medical science.

I am keenly aware that the choice between academia and industry is a topic of significant debate and personal contemplation. If you are navigating this decision or simply wish to discuss the intricacies of this choice, I welcome you to reach out. Sharing perspectives and experiences can illuminate the path for those standing at this crucial crossroad.

While I am no longer taking on graduate students, I maintain a connection to academia as an Adjunct Professor at McGill.

Commit message:

feat: made the about page less douchy

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: <p>Biostatistician, Statistical Geneticist, Associate Director, Adjunct Professor</p>

profile:
  align: right
  image: me2023.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
 
news: false # includes a list of news items
latest_posts: false # includes a list of the newest posts
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Welcome to my website. I'm Sahir, a biostatistician who uses statistical methods to answer questions that are important to clinicians. After obtaining my PhD in Biostatistics, I joined McGill University as an Assistant Professor in the Departments of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, and Diagnostic Radiology. My [research](/publications) has focused on developing statistical methods for analyzing high-dimensional data in genomics and radiomics. I've published in journals such as Nature Genetics, PLoS Medicine, Biometrics, Bioinformatics, Statistics and Computing, PLoS Genetics, Computational Statistics and Data Analysis, the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series C, and the Journal of Statistics and Data Science Education. I'm grateful to have been funded by an [NSERC Discovery grant](https://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/NSERC-CRSNG/FundingDecisions-DecisionsFinancement/ResearchGrants-SubventionsDeRecherche/ResultsGSCDetail-ResultatsCSSDetails_eng.asp?Year=2020&GSC=1508)  with launch supplement and several CIHR Project Grants. 

I'm also the author of several [R packages](/software) that have been downloaded over [250,000 times](https://www.r-pkg.org/maint/sahir.bhatnagar@gmail.com). The most rewarding part of my job has been training and supervising students. I've supervised 3 Masters, 5 PhD, and 4 undergraduate students, and taught a [Masters level course in Biostatistics](https://sahirbhatnagar.com/EPIB607/) for 4 years with an average enrollment of 100 students. 

Despite these academic accomplishments, I transitioned to industry, driven by a desire to apply my expertise in environments that prioritize reproducibility and robust coding practices. At [Deep Genomics](https://www.deepgenomics.com/), as a Senior Research Scientist, I continued my journey in genomic analysis, contributing significantly to the identification of new drug targets using whole genome sequencing data. Currently, as the Associate Director at [5 Prime Sciences](https://5primesciences.com/), I provide large pharmaceutical partners with human genetics evidence to de-risk their drug development pipelines. 

I am keenly aware that the choice between academia and industry is a topic of significant debate and personal contemplation. If you are navigating this decision or simply wish to discuss the intricacies of this choice, I welcome you to reach out. Sharing perspectives and experiences can illuminate the path for those standing at this crucial crossroad.

While I am no longer taking on graduate students, I maintain a connection to academia as an Adjunct Professor at McGill.
